I am here tonight not only as the Governor of New Jersey, but also as Donald Trump's friend for the last fourteen years.

We are about to be led by not only a strong leader but by a caring, genuine and decent person.

I am proud to say that the voice of the people of our nation is being heard in this hall and those voices want Donald Trump to be the next President of the United States. But this election is not just about Donald Trump.

It is also about his Democratic opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton.

In the past few weeks we have seen this Justice Department refuse to prosecute her.

Over the last eight years, we have seen this Administration refuse to hold her accountable for her dismal record as Secretary of State.

Well, tonight, as a former federal prosecutor, I welcome the opportunity to hold her accountable for her performance and her character.

We must present those facts to you, a jury of her peers, both in this hall and in living rooms around our nation.

Since the Justice Department refuses to allow you to render a verdict, let's present the case now, on the facts, against Hillary Clinton. She was America's chief diplomat. Look around at the violence and danger in our world today every region of the world has been infected with her flawed judgment.

But let me be specific so you can render your verdict. In North Africa, she was the chief engineer of our disastrous overthrow of Qaddafi in Libya.

Libya today after Hillary Clinton's grand strategy? Libya's economy in ruins, death and violence in the streets and ISIS now dominating the country.

Hillary Clinton, as a failure for ruining Libya and creating a nest for terrorist activity by ISIS guilty or not guilty? In Nigeria, Hillary Clinton amazingly fought for two years to keep an Al-Qaeda affiliate off the terrorist watch list.

What happened because of this reckless action by the candidate who is the self proclaimed champion of women around the world? These terrorists abducted hundreds of innocent young girls two years ago.

These schoolgirls are still missing today.

What was the solution from the Obama/Clinton team? A hashtag campaign! Hillary Clinton, as an apologist for an Al-Qaeda affiliate in Nigeria resulting in the capture of innocent young women guilty or not guilty? She fights for the wrong people.

She doesn't fight for us. She doesn't get the real threats America faces. In China, Hillary Clinton praised the Chinese government for buying our debt to finance President Obama's bloated stimulus plan.

So desperate for Chinese cash, she promised to oppose the Buy American provision in the stimulus bill in exchange for the cash to finance his huge expansion of government spending.

Hillary Clinton, putting big government spending financed by the Chinese ahead of jobs for middle class Americans guilty or not guilty? In Syria, she called President Assad a "reformer" and a "different kind of leader".

With 400,000 now dead ... think about that.

Four.

Hundred.

Thousand. Dead.

At the hands of the man Hillary defended.

We must ask this question: Hillary Clinton, as an awful judge of the character of a dictator-butcher in the Middle East guilty or not guilty? In Iran, she led the negotiations that brought about the worst nuclear deal in history.

Let me be clear: America and the world are measurably less safe and less respected because of the Iran deal Hillary helped cut.

Period. After she launched those negotiations, she became the biggest cheerleader for it at the end.

A deal that will lead to a nuclear Iran, an Israel that will be less safe and secure and much more dangerous Middle East.

Hillary Clinton, as an inept negotiator of the worst nuclear arms deal in American history guilty or not guilty? In Russia, she went to the Kremlin on her very first visit and gave them the symbolic reset button.

The button should have read, "delete" she is very good at that because she deleted in four years what it took 40 years to build. The next year, she said our goal was to strengthen Russia.

Strengthen an adversary led by a dictator who dreams of reassembling the old Soviet empire? What a dangerous lack of judgment.

Once again, as a flawed evaluator of dictators and failed strategist who has permitted Russia back in as a major player in the Middle East is Hillary Clinton guilty or not guilty? In Cuba, Hillary Clinton supported concessions to the Castro brothers and got almost nothing in return for ending the embargo.

She supported a deal that didn't even require this murderous regime to return a cop killer, JoAnne Chesimard, to face justice.

Chesimard murdered a New Jersey State Trooper in cold blood, fled to Cuba and lives there to this very day.

How do you live with your own conscience when you reward a domestic terrorist with continued safety and betray the family of fallen police officer waiting for decades for justice for his murder? Hillary Clinton as coddler of the brutal Castro brothers and betrayer of the family of fallen Trooper Werner Foerster guilty or not guilty?

Finally, here at home, in one of her first decisions as Secretary of State, she set up a private e-mail server in her basement in violation of our national security.

Lets face it: Hillary Clinton cared more about protecting her own secrets than she did about protecting America's secrets.

Then she lied about it over and over again.

She said there was no marked classified information on her server.

The FBI Director said that was untrue.

She said that she did not email any classified information. The FBI Director said that was untrue.

She said all work related emails were sent back to the State Department.

The FBI Director said that was untrue.

As to Hillary Clinton, putting herself ahead of America guilty or not guilty? Hillary Clinton, lying to the American people about her selfish, awful judgment guilty or not guilty? Time after time the facts, and just the facts, lead you to the same verdict both around the world and at home.

In Libya and Nigeria guilty.

In China and Syria guilty.

In Iran and Russia and Cuba guilty.

And here at home on risking America's secrets to keep her own and lying to cover it all upguilty. Her focus group tested persona, with no genuineness to be found, is a sham meant to obscure all the facts and leave you able to vote for her. We cannot promote someone to Commander-in-Chief who has made the world a more violent and dangerous place with every bad judgment she has made.

We cannot make the Chief Law Enforcement Officer of the United States someone who has risked America's secrets and lied about this to Congress and the American people.

We didn't disqualify Hillary Clinton to be President of the United States the facts of her life and career disqualifies her. We in this hall agree with all of this.

But I want to talk to all of you at home, in your living rooms. You are the ones who will decide this election. We have an alternative.

We have a man who is unafraid.

We have a man who wants to lead us.

We have a man who understands the frustrations and the aspirations of our fellow citizens.

We have a man who judges people based on their performance regardless of your gender, race, ethnic or religious background. We do not need to settle for less.

We cannot reward incompetence and deceit. We need to demand more than what Hillary Clinton offers for America.

We know exactly what four years of Hillary Clinton will bring: all the failures of the Obama years, but with less charm and more lies. It is our obligation to stop Hillary Clinton now and never let her within 10 miles of the White House again.

It is time to come together and make sure that Donald Trump is our next President.

I am proud to be part of this team.

Now let's go win this thing.